now gather yourself in troops oh
daughter of troops he has laid siege
against us they will strike the judge of
Israel with a rod on the cheek but you
Bethlehem Ephrathah though you are
little among the thousands of Judah yet
out of you shall come forth to me the
one to be ruler in Israel whose goings
forth are from of old from everlasting
therefore he shall give them up until
the time that she who was in labor has
given birth
then the remnant of his brethren shall
return to the children of Israel and he
shall stand and feed his flock in the
strength of the Lord in the majesty of
the name of the Lord his God and they
shall abide for now he shall be great to
the ends of the earth and this one shall
be peace when the Assyrian comes into
our land and when he treads in our
palaces then we will raise against him
seven shepherds and eight princely men
they shall waste with the sword the land
of Assyria and the land of Nimrod at its
entrances
thus he shall deliver us from the
Assyrian when he comes into our land and
when he treads within our borders then
the remnant of Jacob shall be in the
midst of many peoples like Dew from the
Lord like showers on the grass that
tarry for no man nor wait for the sons
of men and the remnant of Jacob shall be
among the Gentiles in the midst of many
peoples like a lion among the beasts of
the forest like a young lion among
flocks of sheep who if he passes through
both treads down and tears and pieces
and none can deliver
your hand shall be lifted against your
adversaries and all your enemies shall
be cut off and it shall be in that day
that I will cut off your horses from
your midst and destroy your chariots I
will cut off the cities of your land and
throw down all your strongholds I will
cut off sorcerers from your hand and you
shall have no suit says your carved
images I will also cut off and your
sacred pillars from your midst you shall
no more worship the work of your hands I
will pluck your wooden images from your
midst thus I will destroy your cities
and I will execute vengeance in anger
and fury on the nations that have not